README.md, before:

# Adventure Realms

A collection of classic text adventure games built with .NET 9.0, featuring both console and modern Terminal.Gui interfaces.

## Games Included

- **Adventure House** - Explore a house and escape before you starve
- **Abandoned Space Station** - Navigate a mysterious space station and find the escape pod
- **Future Family Space Apartment** - Explore a futuristic apartment with advanced technology
- **Lost in the Woods** - Find your way home through an enchanted forest

## Features

- **Dual Interface Modes**: Choose between classic console mode and modern graphical Terminal.Gui interface
- **Professional UI**: Real-time map display, organized content areas, mouse support
- **Cross-Platform**: Runs on Windows, macOS, and Linux
- **Self-Contained**: Can be built as standalone executables requiring no .NET installation
- **Comprehensive Testing**: Full test suite ensuring game completion and mechanics validation

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- .NET 9.0 SDK or later

### Running the Application

#### Development Mode
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/StevenSSparks/AdventureRealms.git
cd AdventureRealms

# Run in development mode
dotnet run -f net9.0 --project AdventureRealms/AdventureRealms.csproj
```

#### Build and Run
```bash
# Build the project
dotnet build

# Run the built application
dotnet run --project AdventureRealms
```

## Building Release Versions

### Self-Contained Standalone Executables

Build standalone executables that include the .NET runtime and require no .NET installation on the target machine:

#### macOS (Apple Silicon - ARM64)
```bash
dotnet publish AdventureRealms/AdventureRealms.csproj -c Release -f net9.0 --self-contained true -r osx-arm64 -o ./publish/osx-arm64
```

#### macOS (Intel - x64)
```bash
dotnet publish AdventureRealms/AdventureRealms.csproj -c Release -f net9.0 --self-contained true -r osx-x64 -o ./publish/osx-x64
```

#### Windows (x64)
```bash
dotnet publish AdventureRealms/AdventureRealms.csproj -c Release -f net9.0 --self-contained true -r win-x64 -o ./publish/win-x64
```

#### Windows (ARM64)
```bash
dotnet publish AdventureRealms/AdventureRealms.csproj -c Release -f net9.0 --self-contained true -r win-arm64 -o ./publish/win-arm64
```

#### Linux (x64)
```bash
dotnet publish AdventureRealms/AdventureRealms.csproj -c Release -f net9.0 --self-contained true -r linux-x64 -o ./publish/linux-x64
```

#### Linux (ARM64)
```bash
dotnet publish AdventureRealms/AdventureRealms.csproj -c Release -f net9.0 --self-contained true -r linux-arm64 -o ./publish/linux-arm64
```

### Command Parameters Explained

- `-c Release` - Release configuration (optimized build)
- `-f net9.0` - Target framework (required for multi-target projects)
- `--self-contained true` - Includes .NET runtime in the output
- `-r <runtime>` - Target platform runtime identifier
- `-o <path>` - Output directory for the published application

### Running Published Applications

After building, run the standalone executable directly:

```bash
# macOS/Linux
./publish/osx-x64/AdventureRealms

# Windows
./publish/win-x64/AdventureRealms.exe
```

## Testing

Run the comprehensive test suite to validate game mechanics:

```bash
# Run all tests
dotnet test

# Run specific game walkthrough tests
dotnet test --filter "CompleteGameWalkthroughTests"

# Run item interaction tests
dotnet test --filter "ItemInteractionTests"
```

## Game Commands

### Movement
- `n`, `s`, `e`, `w`, `u`, `d` (or full names: north, south, east, west, up, down)

### Actions
- `look` - Examine your surroundings
- `get <item>` / `take <item>` - Pick up items
- `drop <item>` - Drop items from inventory
- `use <item>` - Use items in your inventory
- `inv` / `inventory` - View your current inventory

### Special Commands
- `help` - Show game-specific help
- `map` - Display current level map (where available)
- `eat <item>` - Consume food items
- `pet <animal>` - Interact with animals
- `attack <monster>` - Combat actions

## Interface Modes

### Console Mode
Traditional text-based interface with enhanced colors via Spectre.Console.

### Terminal.Gui Mode
Modern graphical text interface featuring:
- Real-time map display
- Organized content panels (game text, map, items, status)
- Mouse support and keyboard navigation
- Professional visual design with color schemes

## Architecture

### Clean Separation
- **AdventureServer**: Pure game logic with zero UI dependencies
- **AdventureClient**: Pure UI/UX with zero game logic dependencies
- **Shared**: Clean communication contracts between client and server

### Multi-Interface Support
The architecture supports multiple interface types:
- Console mode (implemented)
- Terminal.Gui mode (implemented)
- Future: Web, mobile, and cloud deployment ready

## Development

### Project Structure
```
AdventureRealms/
├── AdventureRealms/           # Main application
│   ├── Services/
│   │   ├── AdventureServer/   # Game logic
│   │   ├── AdventureClient/   # UI implementations
│   │   └── Shared/           # Communication contracts
├── AdventureRealms.Tests/     # Comprehensive test suite
└── Setup/                     # Installation projects
```

### Key Technologies
- .NET 9.0
- Terminal.Gui (for modern text UI)
- Spectre.Console (for enhanced console output)
- xUnit (for testing)
- MemoryCache (for session management)

## License

Free to use for non-commercial purposes.

## Credits

Developed by **Steven S. Sparks**
- GitHub: https://github.com/StevenSSparks
- Adventure Realms: Classic text adventure gaming, modernized

---

*Thank you for exploring Adventure Realms! We hope you enjoy these classic-style text adventures with modern enhancements.*

Commit message:

Refactor Windows packaging to WINDOWS_ONLY folders
Moved Windows-specific packaging projects and assets to AdventureRealms.Package.WINDOWS_ONLY and Setup.WINDOWS_ONLY folders. Updated README with platform-specific notes. Adjusted solution and project files to remove unused platform configs and fixed minor text and layout issues in UI and data files. Added more command synonyms for 'pet' in command processing.

README.md, after:

# Adventure Realms

A collection of classic text adventure games built with .NET 9.0, featuring both console and modern Terminal.Gui interfaces.

## Games Included

- **Adventure House** - Explore a house and escape before you starve
- **Abandoned Space Station** - Navigate a mysterious space station and find the escape pod
- **Future Family Space Apartment** - Explore a futuristic apartment with advanced technology
- **Lost in the Woods** - Find your way home through an enchanted forest

## Features

- **Dual Interface Modes**: Choose between classic console mode and modern graphical Terminal.Gui interface
- **Professional UI**: Real-time map display, organized content areas, mouse support
- **Cross-Platform**: Runs on Windows, macOS, and Linux
- **Self-Contained**: Can be built as standalone executables requiring no .NET installation
- **Comprehensive Testing**: Full test suite ensuring game completion and mechanics validation

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- .NET 9.0 SDK or later

### Running the Application

#### Development Mode
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/StevenSSparks/AdventureRealms.git
cd AdventureRealms

# Run in development mode
dotnet run -f net9.0 --project AdventureRealms/AdventureRealms.csproj
```

#### Build and Run
```bash
# Build the project
dotnet build

# Run the built application
dotnet run --project AdventureRealms
```

## Building Release Versions

### Self-Contained Standalone Executables

Build standalone executables that include the .NET runtime and require no .NET installation on the target machine:

#### macOS (Apple Silicon - ARM64)
```bash
dotnet publish AdventureRealms/AdventureRealms.csproj -c Release -f net9.0 --self-contained true -r osx-arm64 -o ./publish/osx-arm64
```

#### macOS (Intel - x64)
```bash
dotnet publish AdventureRealms/AdventureRealms.csproj -c Release -f net9.0 --self-contained true -r osx-x64 -o ./publish/osx-x64
```

#### Windows (x64)
```bash
dotnet publish AdventureRealms/AdventureRealms.csproj -c Release -f net9.0 --self-contained true -r win-x64 -o ./publish/win-x64
```

#### Windows (ARM64)
```bash
dotnet publish AdventureRealms/AdventureRealms.csproj -c Release -f net9.0 --self-contained true -r win-arm64 -o ./publish/win-arm64
```

#### Linux (x64)
```bash
dotnet publish AdventureRealms/AdventureRealms.csproj -c Release -f net9.0 --self-contained true -r linux-x64 -o ./publish/linux-x64
```

#### Linux (ARM64)
```bash
dotnet publish AdventureRealms/AdventureRealms.csproj -c Release -f net9.0 --self-contained true -r linux-arm64 -o ./publish/linux-arm64
```

### Command Parameters Explained

- `-c Release` - Release configuration (optimized build)
- `-f net9.0` - Target framework (required for multi-target projects)
- `--self-contained true` - Includes .NET runtime in the output
- `-r <runtime>` - Target platform runtime identifier
- `-o <path>` - Output directory for the published application

### Running Published Applications

After building, run the standalone executable directly:

```bash
# macOS/Linux
./publish/osx-x64/AdventureRealms

# Windows
./publish/win-x64/AdventureRealms.exe
```

## Testing

Run the comprehensive test suite to validate game mechanics:

```bash
# Run all tests
dotnet test

# Run specific game walkthrough tests
dotnet test --filter "CompleteGameWalkthroughTests"

# Run item interaction tests
dotnet test --filter "ItemInteractionTests"
```

## Game Commands

### Movement
- `n`, `s`, `e`, `w`, `u`, `d` (or full names: north, south, east, west, up, down)

### Actions
- `look` - Examine your surroundings
- `get <item>` / `take <item>` - Pick up items
- `drop <item>` - Drop items from inventory
- `use <item>` - Use items in your inventory
- `inv` / `inventory` - View your current inventory

### Special Commands
- `help` - Show game-specific help
- `map` - Display current level map (where available)
- `eat <item>` - Consume food items
- `pet <animal>` - Interact with animals
- `attack <monster>` - Combat actions

## Interface Modes

### Console Mode
Traditional text-based interface with enhanced colors via Spectre.Console.

### Terminal.Gui Mode
Modern graphical text interface featuring:
- Real-time map display
- Organized content panels (game text, map, items, status)
- Mouse support and keyboard navigation
- Professional visual design with color schemes

## Architecture

### Clean Separation
- **AdventureServer**: Pure game logic with zero UI dependencies
- **AdventureClient**: Pure UI/UX with zero game logic dependencies
- **Shared**: Clean communication contracts between client and server

### Multi-Interface Support
The architecture supports multiple interface types:
- Console mode (implemented)
- Terminal.Gui mode (implemented)
- Future: Web, mobile, and cloud deployment ready

## Development

### Project Structure
```
AdventureRealms/
├── AdventureRealms/           # Main application
│   ├── Services/
│   │   ├── AdventureServer/   # Game logic
│   │   ├── AdventureClient/   # UI implementations
│   │   └── Shared/           # Communication contracts
├── AdventureRealms.Tests/     # Comprehensive test suite
└── Setup/                     # Installation projects
```

### Key Technologies
- .NET 9.0
- Terminal.Gui (for modern text UI)
- Spectre.Console (for enhanced console output)
- xUnit (for testing)
- MemoryCache (for session management)

## Platform-Specific Notes

### Windows-Only Projects (Optional)
The repository includes optional Windows-specific packaging projects that have been moved to separate folders:
- `AdventureRealms.Package.WINDOWS_ONLY/` - Windows Application Packaging Project (.wapproj)
- `Setup.WINDOWS_ONLY/` - Windows Installer Project (.vdproj)

These are only needed if you want to create Windows Store packages or MSI installers. The main Adventure Realms application is fully cross-platform and doesn't require these projects.

## License

Free to use for non-commercial purposes.

## Credits

Developed by **Steven S. Sparks**
- GitHub: https://github.com/StevenSSparks
- Adventure Realms: Classic text adventure gaming, modernized

---

*Thank you for exploring Adventure Realms! We hope you enjoy these classic-style text adventures with modern enhancements.*
